Previously onSWAT...I was always closer to my pop
than I was my mom.
But when he left
and disappeared on my mom
just with no warning, I... Your doctors say
you can't live alone, and your
family's not here; we're in L.A.
Pack your things, 'cause we are leaving here as a family.
LUCA:
I got this new house
in East Hollywood.
I'm still fixing it up.
We gonna bunk together
again or what, man?
This is part of the city program
for cops.
I figure we start right here
and get this ready
for the flat-screen TV.
I'm Molly.
Jim Street.
Don't make me have to get
involved in your love life.
You have way too much
fun at these things.
Maybe I enjoy having
my daughter here.
Are you trying to
poach me from SWAT?
BENSON:
You need to be
out in the field.
I'm gonna take the FBI up
on their offer
and do the five weeks.
Just five weeks, huh?
Well...
Leroy, I know
he's your son,
and I am not his father.
But me and my moms are gonna be
looking after him now,
full time.
CHARICE:
Something happened to Darryl.
The boy was shot.
DOCTOR:
He'll be able to walk,
but he'll never have
full functionality.
LEROY:
Show him what's possible.
Show him what he ain't seen.
I thought maybe you and I could
do some traveling this summer.
Where do you want to go?I mean, I never seen
a kangaroo before.
Me neither.
NVGs down.
Yeah!
17.5. Hell yes!Yeah!
That's a second faster
than 50 Squad.
That's a new LAPD record.Good job, guys.
You're gonna make Hondo
jealous, Deac,
setting a new mark
on the day he gets back.
I'm sure he'll be
more proud than jealous.
We'll find out soon enough.
The plane landed an hour ago.
All right, that gives us time
to set it up,
run it back a few more times.
Let's go.
Let's do it.
I don't know about you, kid,
but I'm about to start
scouring this city
for a good flat white coffee.
Nah, man, it's all about
those meat pies.
Ooh, they were good,
I'll give you that. [chuckles]
Hey, D, wait, wai-wai-wait.
Door's already unlocked.
Get down, get down, right there.
Under the window. Now.
Don't move.
This is LAPD.
Identify yourself!
This is
Sergeant Daniel Harrelson.
I am armed, and you are
on my property.
DANIEL:
Yeah, well,
it was my property
way back before
it was yours.
Pop, why didn't you
answer me, man?
I was napping.
Welcome home, son.
Darryl, come on, kid, it's cool.
Come on.
Hey.
You remember my pops,
Daniel Senior.
Nice to see you again, sir.
It's good to see you, too.
How was Australia?
Oh, it was pretty great.
It was like pressing
the reset button, Pops.
Coming home chill as a fridge.
Good.
Now talk to me.
Why are you napping here?
Ah, your sister Brianna.
Got this new man
staying there all the time.
Pawing and laughing
like they invented romance.
My sister's
a grown woman, Pop.
She's allowed to have
a boyfriend at the house.
That don't mean I need
courtside seats.
How long you been
staying here?About three weeks.
Hoping to stay
a little bit longer,
you know, just till
I get my own place.
Okay, you know what, that's
a whole nother conversation,
and we're gonna have it
when I get home.
Of course. I'm sure
the young man and I
can get by without you.
Pop, don't go filling
the kid's head with a bunch
of your crazy stories
while I'm gone.
Yeah, you.
And you, don't believe
a word he says.
[chuckling]
I'm telling you guys,
every single dating app
gone... no más.
Bumble? Hinge? That one was
a gold mine for you.
The kid ain't lying, man,
I watched him do it.
No, no, I'm looking
for something more.
I'm not gonna find it
swiping right, that's for sure.
I thought that's
the only way
your generation meets
people these days.
I figure I focus
on me a little, the job.
I got my eye on a new
Cadre Certification.
If the right woman's out there,
it'll happen, right?
Hasn't happened for Hondo
or Luca yet.
Hey, whoa, whoa.
Foul on the play, Chris.
Oh!
Damn.I'm just biding my time.
In other news, the
Eagle has landed.
The boss is back.
Oh, man, I miss that guy.TAN:
Nice.
[imitating Hondo]:
Now listen up, people.
Just 'cause I've been on
vacation don't mean I went soft.
[laughter]That's all right, it's a
little Hondo, a little Elvis.
Yeah, yeah, hey.
You forgot the football grab
on the vest.
And the gloves.Oh, yeah.
Lot that makes Hondo
the man he is.
Hey, I got an idea.
Let's make this interesting.
Everybody pick their
favorite Hondo thing,
and if he says it or does it,
you're safe.
Anyone left standing
has to buy the food and drink
for Luca's house tonight.
I'll take, uh,
"Now, listen up, people."Football grab.
Whoa, that was mine, man.We weren't playing yet.
I'll take, uh, "stay liquid."
You can't take "stay liquid."
That's 20 Squad tradition.
He still says it.I got fist bump.
I miss that.
Y'all took the good ones.
All right, all right.
You better pick something.
He's gonna get here real quick.
No, I just did.
"All right, all right."
Does he say that?Sometimes.
You stole my football grab.You snooze, you lose.
All right, all right.
Ah!20 David back
in the building!
Yeah, boss, we missed you.What's up, Luca?
Hey, come here, Chris.
Big Tan. Street!
Yo, yo, yo!
Yeah.Welcome back.
Deacon, give me some.
Give me some.
[laughing]
I know you been holding it down,
right, Deac?
Now wait a minute.
Did y'all really beat
the dark room target
record this morning?
By one second.That's what I'm talking about.
Oh, Luca, I heard about
your fall. How you feeling?
Rehab's rolling along.
I'll be all right.
We got our guy, though.
Yeah, and he would've done it
without busting a hip
if that balcony had been
up to code.
I still get to roll with y'all,
I just have to hang back
when you guys breach,
until they clear me
for full duty.That's cool.
All right, well, listen. I got
a call from Captain Cortez.
Sounds like she's gonna stick
with that Fed gig.
CHRIS:
I knew she'd love
undercover.
Just... always thought
she'd be back.
HONDO:
Well, let's see
what happens.
But in the meantime,
I hear we got a bad man
to bring in this
morning, huh?
LUCA:
Yeah, we sure do.
His name's Wade Coleson,
he's a burglar to the stars.
Dude stole, like, $8 million
in jewelry from celebrity
mansions this year alone.
He collects semi-automatics
on the side.
Robbery-homicide asked us
to take lead.
Roger that.
Let's go get him.
Yeah.
Tac up!
20-David!
[whoops]
MOLLY:
It's a simple favor, Dad.
Listen, as much as I'd love to,
I can't just loan out
Metro officers
to help my daughter on her job.
Well, they wouldn't
be helping me,
they'd be helping the
victim of a crime.
What you're doing
for the women's shelter,
I think it's great.
I'm proud of you.
But I can't supply manpower.
Okay. I get it.
I'm sorry.
We're still on
for dinner, right?
Of course.
I'll drop by after work.
Hey, top of the
morning, Ms. Hicks.Hey, Jim.
Everything okay?
Uh... not your problem.
And you look like you have
some doors to kick in.
Not for a few minutes.
Hey, would you mind taking that
to the motor pool?
Yeah.
Thanks, man.
What's up?
[sighs] Well, I moved back here
to work at this law firm
that does pro bono work at
a battered women's shelter.
That sounds
pretty intense.Yeah.
There are some pretty
messed-up men out there,
as I'm sure you know.
Yeah, I've seen a
few in my day.Anyway,
a woman came in today,
finally worked up the courage
to leave the creep who's been
beating her for years.
She's ready to move out
for good, but she's too scared
to go back and
get her things.
The shelter doesn't provide
officers to escort her?
They do, but
patrol is swamped,
and the shelter can't
provide someone
until next week.
And I'm worried she'll
lose her nerve by then.
So you came here hoping your dad
could get you someone
to help out?
Yeah, but he's a stickler
for protocol, so...
Well, just because the boss
can't assign someone
doesn't mean an officer
can't volunteer.
I got to go
and serve this warrant,
but I can make some time
this afternoon.
You sure?Yeah. Absolutely.
It's for a good cause, right?
It is.
In position covering
topside egress.
HONDO:
Roger that.
Entry team in position.
Ready to breach.
Luca, are we clear?
Front side secure.Roger that.
Breach on my count,
in three, two...TAN: Hold.
Incoming surveillance drone.
Guy might have eyes in the sky.
All clear. False alarm.
♪ If you're feelin' how I'm
feelin', then put your twos up ♪
♪ If you feel ♪ Yeah♪
♪ How I feel ♪ Yeah♪
♪ If you feel ♪ What♪
♪ How I feel ♪ Uh-huh♪
♪ If you feel how I feel
♪ Put your twos up
♪ I wanna kick it now,
so let me bring it down... ♪
I hate those things.
♪ And we can fizzle out
♪ And we're jumpin'
in the sea... ♪
Honey, this thing's...
[screaming]
Hold the breach.
Hey, guys,
something just happened.
Some kind of explosion
on the beach.
HONDO:
Pull out. Everyone pull out.
DISPATCHER:
All units be advised,
explosion north of the marina.
Multiple casualties.
Cause unknown.
[siren chirps, tires squeal]
LUCA:
Keep it moving, come on!
Let's go, move, move, move!Let's go!
Keep your eyes peeled
for any further threats.
Let's go!
I got you.Keep moving! Come on!
[panicked chatter, yelling]
Come on, come on, keep moving!
Let's go, move!
This way,
this way, this way.
Hurry up!
Oh, my God!
[panicked chatter]
Luca! First aid kits!Got it!
♪
[sirens wailing, helicopter
blades whirring]
♪
MAN: Was just another drone
on the beach.
Figured it was some perv
trying to get bikini shots.
All right,
we appreciate your time.
EMTs will get to you soon.
I need the ranking officer.I'm Sergeant Harrelson.
SWAT.
Lieutenant Detective
Piper Lynch, Hollywood Division.
You're a little far
west, aren't you?
Yeah, a lot
of agencies gonna be sticking
their fingers in this--
FBI, FAA, Homeland.
The mayor has asked me
to personally run point
between the departments and make
sure that we don't cross streams
with the Feds.
So...
what do we know?Some sort of drone
strapped with explosives.
Six dead, a dozen more wounded.
Still IDing the victims.
Anything left of the aircraft?Just melted fragments.
Nothing traceable.TAN: Lieutenant Lynch?
Long time.Victor Tan.
Look at you, all gussied up
in SWAT gear. Fits you well.
Lynch is a legend
in Hollywood Division.
Her deep cover op set the bar
back when I
was on Vice.
Yeah, let's save the flattery.
Any witnesses get
a look at the drone?
Actually,
I think I did.
I was covering
a roof egress a mile east
when I clocked one
heading this way
maybe a minute
before the explosion.
Had something strapped to it.
I figured it was a camera,
but could've been explosives.
Maybe I should've
sensed something.
No, it would've been
too late anyhow.
Based on the aircraft's flight
path and projected range,
we have patrol
canvassing the area
we suspect the pilot
was working from.
He may have left
something behind.
Be nice to know more
about the drone itself.
You mind if I send these two to
talk to someone who might help?
Need all the intel we can get.
You Walter?
Yeah. What can
I do for you?
What, are you building
the next Terminator?
Nah, Rocco's a lover,
not a fighter.
One of you guys got
a look at the drone?Yeah, think so.
I was on the rooftop
of a high-rise.Yeah, yeah. Lynch told me.
Anyhow, I pulled up views
of a dozen drone models
with the range
and payload needed
to pull something like this off.
Hopefully,
one of them looks familiar.
So how do you and Lieutenant
Lynch know each other?
I'm good at what I do.
She collects people like me.
TAN:
This one, for sure.
Ah, figures.
There were about
three million drones
purchased in the U.S. last year,
and that was a top seller.
Cheap, reliable,
got a range of two miles,
can carry three to four pounds.
Could go further and carry
more weight if modified.
So whoever's operating it
would have to have been near us.
Yep.TAN: I'm guessing
there's quite
a few places in the city
that sell 'em?
I'd love to tell you
this guy was using
some cutting-edge tech,
but he didn't,
which is terrifying.
I hope to God you catch him,
but unless you get
a serial number, the drone he
used ain't gonna help you do it.
I'm sorry.
You guys need a lift
back to the station?[engine starts]
[chuckles]
You drive a Porsche
with your iPad?
Can rig it to anything.
Just waiting on
the go-ahead from Uber
so I can get rich from my couch.
Ah, I think we'll
keep it old-school.
Thanks, though.
[engine revs]
HICKS:
Lieutenant Lynch.
I hear good things.
Likewise, Commander.
So, where are we at?
The victims include
a schoolteacher,
an engineer and her husband,
two fast-food
workers, and a nurse.
LYNCH:
FBI's running backgrounds,
but so far nothing links them.
Homeland pick up
any Web chatter?
Not a peep.No, and it's the type of thing
that a terrorist cell
would brag about.
So, what do we know
about the explosives?
It's homemade C-4,
about three pounds.
HICKS:
That means the weapons
are untraceable,
we have no idea who made 'em,
how many they have,
or what their motive is.
There's a temporary ban
on all drones and the FAA's got
all available eyes
scanning the sky.
Those things are two feet
wide and fly under the radar.
You can stare at
their screen all day,
it does not guarantee success.
FBI, Homeland, NSA, every
agency's all in on this.
They'll find something.
And the second they do,
the mayor needs SWAT
ready to pounce.
What's with the uniform, kid?
Well, since we're
holding till the Feds
get a lead we can run with,
I figure I'd pop out,
help Molly Hicks with
something at her job.
You're kissing up to the boss's
daughter now, Street?
Come on, man.No, it's nothing like that.
It's a domestic victim
in need of support.
Just keep your
phone close, playboy.
I'll be ready to roll.
Sis.
BRIANNA:
Hey.
What's up?
Hey, you.
Thanks for coming in.
Oh.
[scoffs]
No way I'd miss your face
for this conversation.
Hmm. So Pops tells me
you have a new little
boyfriend at the house, huh?
That all he said?
[chuckles]
He didn't tell you how he won't
leave my poor man alone,
grilling him like he's my prom
date or some madness.
Ah, I can only imagine.
Did you talk to him?
Try to get him to
back off a little bit?
Was fixing to, and then he just
up and relocated to your place.
Sounds like a win-win
all around.No, no, no, hold on.
Hold on. Will you at least tell
him that he's still welcome?
Look, Cal and I
are getting serious.
Now, if Dad is uncomfortable
with that, that's on him.
I have been looking after him
for over a year now, by the way.
I know, and I appreciate
it, but come on, Brie.
Your moms is over
300 miles away
and she doesn't want
his head on a plate.
My mom lives here, and
trust me, she does.
Charice is still
that sour on him?
She's in Palm Springs until
Sunday, but if my pops is still
at the house when she gets
back, it ain't gonna be pretty.
[chuckles] At least you have
some peace untilSunday.
But then I got Darryl.Wait, what about Darryl?
He afraid of old men?
We just got back from
clearing our heads, Brie.
I want to start fresh.
I want to create
a stable environment,
but, come on, you know Pops.
He's not exactly reliable.
Hmm. Last I checked,
that house had three bedrooms.
Not like they'll be
bunking together.
Now, I know your hands
are full with Darryl,
but maybe it'll be easier
with two people.
You know, like-like pets.[scoffs]
You just call Daddy a pet?
You know what I mean.
I can see this
being a good thing.
GREG:
She the one who put you
up to this?
Like she knows
what's best for you?
Pretend he's not here.I mean,
if you were better
at making decisions,
we wouldn't be in this mess,
now, would we?STREET:
Hey, buddy.
Why don't we just let her
pack her things in peace, okay?
My pleasure. It'd be a relief
not having her crap
clutter up the place.Hey. What'd I just say?
It's called teasing. Relax.
No, it's called shaming.
And now you're minimizing
to cover it up.
I'm what? It's not my fault
she can't take a joke.
STREET:
And that's blaming the victim.
You want to keep going?
Maybe rationalize your behavior,
play the guilt game?If you weren't
wearing a badge...I'd still kick your ass,
so shut it down, big man.
How about we all just
take it easy, okay?
Iris, go ahead
and pack your things.
No. No,
the stallion is mine.
You gave it to me.No. When I bought it,
I said that...That's far enough.
You're in my house.
I'm talking to my girlfriend.
I'm gonna need you
to back it up.
[grunting]
Keep your mouth shut.
This ends here.
One more word,
I book you for assaulting
an officer. Understand?
Iris, take your time.
Don't hurt him, okay?
Why don't you go get
your things from the bedroom?
It's okay.
STREET:
Stay.
Keep your hands
where I can see 'em.
My dad always said this was
the most frustrating part
of the job.
Get called to the same
house over and over.
Most times the woman stays.
Yeah, it's harder to leave
than you'd think.
Well, you know a thing or two
about it?
Eh, my dad was a piece of work.
Then how'd you turn out so good?
[chuckles]:
Me?
I don't know. Did I?
I'm a work in progress.
IRIS:
That's everything.
Okay, let's get going, then.
Come around this way.
You can get up
in a minute.
[phone beeping]
There's been another bombing.
How bad is it?This one hit Downtown.
Five dead, eight wounded.
The Feds found a drone fragment
with partial serial number.
They're running it
through their crime lab now.
Is this a victim or suspect?Survivor.
Caught the blast on camera.
CHICO V [over video]:
What up, peeps?
This is your boy Chico V.
I'm here in Downtown
in the City of Angels,
and zayum, this spot is lit.
We getting ready
to drop some stacks.
I'm talking...[people screaming]
Homeland still hasn't linked the
attacks to any terrorist cell,
so at this point
we have to assume
they're gonna keep coming
until we stop 'em.
LYNCH:
Good news. Feds got a hit
on the serial number.
The aircraft used was purchased
along with three others
at Eli's Electronics
in Simi Valley three weeks ago.
They pulled an image
of the buyer
off the store security cam.
Put it up.
LUCA:
With security cameras,
you think he'd try
to hide his face.
DEACON:
Maybe that's not our guy.
What if our perp paid a homeless
guy to make the purchase?
Keeps his face off-camera.
I spent a year undercover
on the Skid Row task force.
If our man in the photo
is part of L.A.'s
homeless, I have a guy
over in Central Division
who will know him.
How?
There's over 30,000 homeless
in this city.
Yep.
And the average human can
only put 150 names to faces,
but I pride myself on
knowing exceptional people
and using their talents
whenever possible.
Mick? It's Piper.
I'm gonna text you a photo.
[sighs]
Really?
Fine.
[high-pitched]:
Hey, pal. How are you?
It has been way too long.
Listen, I need a favor.
[regular pitch]:
Better?
Great. Texting the photo.
Check your phone.
Are you sure? Good.
Drone buyer goes by Brewster.
Now, my guy hasn't seen him
in the last few weeks,
but he says-- damn it,
I forgot to say goodbye.
Anyway, he
says Brewster
usually holes up in an alley
off of Crocker Street downtown.
All right.
I'll run it down myself.
[siren wailing]
I almost had Hondo
with a fist bump.
He didn't bite.And he would've said
"stay liquid" back at
the raid this morning
if we hadn't gotten
pulled. On the upside,
we're looking at a four-way
split for burgers and beers.
Brewster?
BREWSTER:
Who's asking?LAPD.
You mind stepping out
for a sec?
Nah, I'm good. I'm
just eating my lunch.
You're not in trouble,
Brewster, though, technically,
you're not allowed to camp
in an active alley.
But if you give us a sec,
we won't bounce you.
Okay.
I'm coming out.
[grunting]
DEACON:
Whoa.
Fortune's been
smiling down on you, huh?
[chuckles]: Why I got the
feeling that's about to change?
We just want to
know who was it
that paid you to buy
those drones up in Simi Valley.
[sighs] I knew this was gonna
come back to bite me in the ass.
I got no idea who that guy was.
CHRIS:
Physical description?
Car he drove?
Uh, he was
a white guy.
20s or 30s, kind of average, uh,
wore sunglasses and a ball cap.
He drove a Camry
or a Corolla or something.
And, uh,
he didn't talk much,
except to say
that if we spent less money
overseas killing people,
we might be able to afford
to house the ones on the streets
back here at home.
Kind of see
his point on that.
This thing sounds political.Why? What'd he do?
He killed 11 people,
and without your help,
he might kill
a lot more.
This guy's got
the whole city terrified.
Damn, now,
I-I don't know what to say.
He gave me five bills
to make the buy.
Did you go anywhere else?No, I just drove
out to Simi, got the drones,
and then came back here.
You didn't stop
for food, gas, anything?
Nope.All right.
We're gonna have to take you
down to the station,
work with a sketch artist.
[stammers]
You know what,
actually we did stop.
Starbucks drive-through.
I needed coffee.
Got one of them fancy drinks.
HICKS:
Car was rented
for cash,
but the driver had
to use a credit card
for a security deposit.
LYNCH:
Nate Westerly.
26-year-old L.A. native
and army vet
with a dishonorable discharge.
HICKS:
Renting a half an acre
in Conejo Valley.
Private, secluded.
Pushing the warrant
through now.
All right, great.
Send me the intel.
I'll round up my team.
DEACON [over radio]:
In position. Two side, set.
Roger that. Four side, set.
Luca, do you have a visual?
LUCA:
Tactical robot sweeping.
No sign of threats.
Clear to breach.
DEACON:
Left side clear.
Right side clear.TAN: All clear.
He bought four drones,
but he's only used two.
And looking at this setup,
he's sitting on a lot more C-4.
Looks like he bought
extra battery power
and signal
boosters, too.
He's trying to extend the flying
time and range. That's not good.
He could still be on the
property sweeping the area now.
[buzzing overhead]
No explosives.
It's just a lookout.
But now he knows
we're on to him.
Feds sent over their file
on Westerly.
The more we learn about
this guy, the more he scares me.
Four years in the army
and two tours in Yemen before
he starts getting written up
for insubordination.
Army finally
gives him the boot,
he starts taking classes
at community college.
Guess what
he studied.
Arabic and
modern Islam.
So he got radicalized?
Any ties to known cells?
Not in the file,
but he's been active protesting
U.S. drone strikes,
and we finally got backgrounds
on all the victims.
Tim Miller, died in
the second bombing.
He used to pilot unmanned
aircraft over Yemen.
LYNCH:
And the engineer
killed on the beach
designed the model
the pilot flew.
So these attacks,
they're assassinations?
Yeah, but just like
military drone strikes,
they come with
collateral damage.
This guy's trying
to send a message.
Yeah, about civilian
casualties.
We found his letters to Congress
asking why American lives
are worth more
than foreign ones.
DEACON:
American lives
aren't worth more,
they're just the ones that the
military is sworn to protect.
This guy's off his nut.
Westerly's I.P. history
had a blueprint
of the factory that builds
military UAVs,
including this model,
designed
by the engineer
and flown by the pilot
killed in the attacks.
That's the Lockman Aeronautics
plant. That's out in Palmdale.
And if Westerly's upgraded
his range and payload
for his next drone, this could
be the deadliest attack yet.
FBI and Homeland
are securing the site
to see that doesn't happen,
but there's something else.
Westerly had
three years
worth of e-mails with an
L.A.-based immigration lawyer.
What, you think
he brought over accomplices?
Well, if he did,
we need to know about it.
I knew he was angry,
but I never imagined
he'd do something like this.
You never found it suspicious
that an army vet
was helping people immigrate
from behind enemy lines?
Just because people live
under a cloud of terrorism
doesn't make them terrorists.
And it wasn't people,
it was just one:
Kalila, the woman
he wanted to marry.
He was in love
with a Yemeni girl?
Met her on his first tour,
got serious on the second.
Nate spent two years
trying to bring her over.
By the time he had the paperwork
and financials squared away,
she died.
Let me guess, a
U.S.-led drone strike?
We didn't know
what happened at first.
She just went radio silent.
Nate flew over there
to look for her,
and that's when
he found out the truth.
Are you sure she's not connected
to the target of the strike?
Playing Westerly for intel.
No. Kalila worked in a market
next to a building that was hit.
Our government claims there
were no civilian casualties,
but local residents
say otherwise.
The army he served killed
the woman he loved.
Now he's out
for revenge.
Nate petitioned
Congress.
Begged me to sue. He even found
leaked footage of the strike,
wanted me to use it as evidence.
When I finally convinced him
there was no prosecutable case,
his phone calls
and e-mails just stopped.
Do you have that footage?
I have it on a flash drive.
Yeah, see, see, you're playing
a young man's game.
You're too aggressive.
I'm just trying to win.
Good luck against this hustler.
What brings you guys in?
It's a little crazy around here.
It's not really the best time.
Yeah, well, when is it
not crazy around here?
Listen, the fridge is bare and
school's not back in for a week,
so I thought I'd take Darryl out
for lunch
and a movie,
and we need you to bankroll us.
HONDO:
You came over here
to get some money?
Pops, you turned on the TV?
The city's under attack, man.
Yeah, well, they can't fly
a drone into the movie theater.
I'm just trying
to keep the boy safe.
Hey, Darryl, do me a solid,
grab yourself something
out of the kitchen.
Just don't touch anything
that says "Hicks."
That's my boss,
and he don't play.
All right.
All right, Pops,
real talk.
What's going on
with you?
Oh, there's gonna be
"real talk,"
then you gonna have to ask
a more specific question.
All right,
how about this?
Me and Moms have been
trying real hard
to create a stable
environment for Darryl,
and we've been doing
a pretty good job.
I'm not trying to step on that,
and I'm not gonna add stress
to your life, promise.
All due respect,
but you've been known to
bounce pretty unpredictably,
not to mention you ain't
said but two words to Mom
over the years.
Now, once she gets back
from Palm Springs,
she's gonna be coming
back around the house.
I can't have you
there for that.
Why does this sound more like
a speech than a question, son?
I'm getting to that.
You cannot inject yourself
into the boy's life
unless you intend
to stay in it.
Still not a question.
Do you know what kind of
damage you can do to Darryl?
I'm sorry to hear
that my presence around him
makes you so uncomfortable.
Pops, I didn't,
I didn't say that.
That's exactly what you said.
I know the damage
that I did to you,
and I can't go back
and change that.
I just thought that I would try
a little bit harder this time.
Hicks is ready for us.
Yeah, I'm coming.
I got to go, Pop.
PILOT:
This is Beacon One. Weapons hot.
Right select single fire.
Coded and ready.
COLONEL BROWNING:
Copy, Beacon One.
This is Delta Fox.
We have target confirmation.
Let's light these bastards up.
PILOT: Copy, Delta Fox.
Hellfire away.
Impact in four, three, two...
BROWNING:
Boom! No way the hajis
survived that hit.
PILOT:
Debris field looks larger
than predicted.
BROWNING:
Downside of dirt houses,
Beacon One.
Locals will sweep it up.
Nice work.
The man barking
the orders didn't sound
too concerned about the
people in that market.
Yeah, and imagine if your
girlfriend was one of 'em there.
Well, if Westerly already
took out the drone's engineer
and pilot, commanding officer
sure seems like a likely target.
Okay, we need an ID and
location on this Delta Fox.
Colonel Ben Browning,
stationed in Idaho
but just flew in this morning.
To Los Angeles?
He's speaking at a military
academy near Downtown.
Surrounded by
dozens of school kids.
Future soldiers.
He ain't going
after the drone plant.
He's trying to teach
our military
about collateral damage.
Weapons ready and hot.
The school's been notified,
but they got 600 students
in the bleachers
of an outdoor stadium.
Assuming Westerly has
eyes on the target,
he could launch and then attack
as soon as they try to evacuate.
We've dispatched snipers to
take out any incoming aircraft.
Yeah, but if you damage your
drone without blowing that C-4,
it could fall
on the crowd,
Westerly could
still detonate it.
Which is why we can't evacuate,
and snipers are our last resort.
We got patrol canvassing
a five-mile radius
looking for Westerly.
FAA's got every bird in the sky
scanning for drones.
Look, once we get eyes on it,
we can track it, right?
The model he's using transmits
a pretty narrow frequency band.
We should be able
to isolate it.
That's the goal,
but it's gonna take some time,
and we don't expect the drone
to go airborne
until just before the colonel's
scheduled to speak.
So somehow we need to lure the
weapon away from the students,
keep it airborne long enough to
hone in on Westerly's position.
How? What, make
him chase us?
Except we can't put
Colonel Browning or any of you
in risk of getting blown up.
Think I have an idea.
BROWNING:
Every strike I've ever led
has been clean.
Now, can I say
with absolute certainty
that no civilian
has ever perished
as a result of one
of our missions? No.
But I can say
with certainty
that countless
young men and women
serving in the
American Armed Forces
have been kept from harm's way
thanks to our ability
to terminate high-value targets
without putting soldiers
in hot zones.
I'm a vet myself, Colonel,
I know the drill.
Well, we like to think all lives
are equal until someone we love
is in harm's way, and
suddenly they matter more.
My job is to love every single
soldier who serves under me.
I imagine you feel the same
about the people of Los Angeles.
100%.
So what now?
Once we get eyes on the weapon,
we roll out and we lure it away
from those kids out there.
If it moves towards the stadium,
we'll shoot it down.
Then you won't be able
to track the pilot.
Exactly.LUCA [over comms]: I got it.
Half mile off.
Approaching from the west.
Roger that. Traveling.
Let's move. Let's move.
WOMAN:
...these three words
into every aspect of his life.
A man who has dedicated
over 30 years
to serving and protecting
this country.
[cheering]
As a decorated officer
of the United States Air Force,
Colonel Benjamin Browning...
Keep your head down,
don't look up.
...commanded over 30 air strikes
upon enemy targets.
There you are.
[tires squeal]
Where you going, Delta Fox?
You can't run
from fire in the sky.
Traveling with the colonel.
You got eyes on the drone?
Several of them. Tech is
scanning for radio signals
to get a 20 on the remote.
It's gonna take a minute.
Roger that.
Did he take the bait?HICKS: Affirmative.
Armed drone passed the school.
He's on your tail.
Approaching the overpass now.
Think he went
for the switch?
We'll see.
We got to keep him airborne
long enough to track
the remote signal and get that
drone away from any civilians.
My pleasure, Officer.
[siren wailing]
He's coming in
for the kill shot.
You're gonna need
to shake him.
[siren wailing]
[tires screeching]
Make a hard right ahead.
There's an empty lot,
no civilians,
where you can dance with him.Roger that.
[tires screeching]
HICKS: No lock on the drone pilot yet. Keep him in the air.
Commander, we got
kids back here.Get away from 'em.
[drone buzzing]
[tires screeching]
[siren wailing]
Got a lock on the remote signal.
Tracking the location.
We just need one more minute.
Keep stalling.
[tires screeching]
Got it. We have the suspect's
Code 6 location.
Airship is responding
to put eyes on him.
We're good, Hondo.
Pick a spot and end it.
Roger that. Head
for that barrier.
Nice driving.
Thanks.
May need you to get me
out of a few tickets.
I think we can arrange that.
[helicopter blades whirring]
[engine starts]
[tires screeching]
Suspect on the move
in a black two-door jeep.
[siren wailing]
[tires screech]
Let's roll.
All right, Luca. You got
the colonel and Walter
until we nail this guy.LUCA:
All right.
Go get him, boss.
Go, go, go, go.
PILOT:
Suspect turning
northeast onto Palm.
Vehicle coming to a stop.
Suspect exiting the vehicle.
Entering a structure
on the north side.
[siren chirps, tires screech]
Limited penetration,
eyes and ears open.
Listen for
the suspect.
Stay liquid.
[gunshot]Cover, cover, cover!
[gunfire]WESTERLY: Stay back!
I got more C-4!
No one else needs to die, Nate!
WESTERLY:
Been saying that for years.
How come our lives
are more important
than the people
our government slaughters?
They're not, man!
But this is not how you're gonna
get people to listen.
HONDO [over radio]:
Deac, you got a visual?
DEACON:
Negative.
Give us a minute.
Roger that.
Look for a clear shot,
but keep your distance.
We don't know how much C-4 he's
got or how he's got it rigged.
You know what it's like
to love someone
who means nothing to the country
you were ready to die for?
Nate, I know about Kalila,
and how much
that's got to hurt.
CHRIS:
No shot. Need him
to inch out a bit.
HONDO:
Roger that.
Best person I ever met.
Deacon, can you get an angle?
DEACON:
Negative. But I got an idea.
Our country won't even
admit she existed.
Or that they
killed her.
[cat meowing]
[electricity discharging]
Don't move. It's over.Hands behind your back!
[grunts]
Suspect in custody. Code 4.
Nicely played
with the kitty-cat.
And, hey, you, uh, heard Hondo
say "Stay liquid," right?
DEACON:
Yeah, but that still leaves
three of us
who have to split
the bill for the barbecue.
Make that two.
Hey. Is there something going on
I should know about?
No. Why?
Deacon.
You want to tell me
what the hell y'all are up to?
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Please. Get out of here
with that.
Y'all have been
watching my every move
like you got
some inside joke running.
Now what's up?CHRIS:
No, we're just trying
to figure out who's
buying the food
for tonight's barbecue.
That's all.
Listen up, people, I ain't...
[laughs]:
Yes! "Listen up..."
Sorry. I just, um...
[clears throat]
Deac's buying
the burgers and beer.
What is wrong with you?
Y'all are gonna make the man
with four kids and a mortgage
foot the bill?All right, hey,
with overtime back,
I'm doing okay.
Besides, since, uh,
Hondo Bingo was my idea,
it's only
right I lose.
HONDO:
Wow.
Hondo Bingo?
Yeah.
CHRIS:
Let's just say we all
really missed you, boss.HONDO:
Okay.
All right.
I can play this game, too.
Burger time? Come on.
Right now we still got
one more move to make.
Some unfinished business
from this morning.
Let's roll.
DEACON:
In position.
[door bangs]
LAPD SWAT! Show me your hands!Give me two,
give me two, give me two!
Now, on the ground!
Kitchen clear!
Dining room clear!
Hands behind your back!
30-David to Command.
We're Code 4.
HONDO:
Roger that, Deac. Nice work.
Now we can go home.
♪ Come on
and put your hands up ♪
♪ Surrender to the music...
DEACON:
Luca Lounge finally
in full swing.
Yeah, man.
Hey, it's a thing of beauty,
ain't it?
It is. Yeah.You like it?
♪ Surrender to the music...
Hey, thanks, Deac.
Appreciate it.
Oh, now that's happening?
Oh, okay, okay, so that was
your thing. The fist bump.
Well, my bad for
leaving you hanging.
That's all right.
Glad to have you back.
It's good to be back.
♪ Come on
and put your hands up... ♪
Hey, Pop.Hmm?
Thanks for bringing Darryl.
I just think it's important
for him to feel welcome
around my SWAT family.Hey, no worries.
And listen, I've been thinking
about what you said
down at the station.
Okay, look, about that.
I think I might've come off
a little too harsh.
I never pulled any punches
with you,
and I don't expect
nothing less in return.
Truth is, you weren't wrong.
I ain't looking for an apology.
Well, that's good,
'cause that's not what this is.
I'm trying to tell you
that I understand
why you said
the things that you did,
but I need you to understand
that time and regrets,
they can change a man, son.
♪ Surrender to the music,
put your hands up... ♪
♪
LYNCH:
Mayor's a fan of this
department for a reason.
It was a pleasure working
with the best cops in the city.
HICKS:
Well, thanks,
Lieutenant.
And if the mayor is such a fan,
maybe you can get her
to free up a little money,
approve one of the candidates
I submitted
to replace Captain Cortez.
I'll talk to her.[knocking on door]
Come in.Am I interrupting?
Nope. On my way out.
Well, I'm guessing you had
quite the day around here.
[chuckles]
You have no idea.
Nothing a little steak
and whiskey won't fix, I hope.
Well, actually,
I was thinking I'd help you out
with your work thing if
it's not too late to arrange it.
Oh, don't worry about it. Jim
took care of it with me earlier.
Jim Street?
He volunteered.
Ah. Did he, now?
Is that a problem?
Of course not. Why
would it be a problem?
[indistinct chatter]
Guess your mother
came back early.
[door opens]
DARRYL:
Ooh, it smells
delicious in here.
There's my boys!
You know I had to come
to make sure
you both got back
in one piece.
How was Australia?It was awesome.
[chuckles]:
Oh!
Hey, Mama.Hey.
It's so good to be home.
[chuckles]Mama, listen, uh...
we didn't realize
that you were gonna be
home so soon, and, um...
My daddy is here with us.
Your father's here?
Now?
Yes.
Hey, stranger.
How you been?
Hello, Daniel.
You look... alive.
And you haven't
aged a day.
Still a beauty.
I'm afraid I didn't...
cook enough for four.
DARRYL:
Oh, no, it's okay.
We ate at the barbecue.
Uh, I mean,
but I'm still hungry.
Definitely.
[chuckles]
Yeah, it's good
to be young, huh?
[coughs]
You know, um,
at my age, I eat half as much
and pee twice as often.
[coughs]
So, if you'll excuse me, um,
nature calls.
[coughs]
Mama.
I'm sorry.
We'll make it work.
[Daniel coughing]
Damn it.
HONDO:
You all right, Pop?
Hmm?
That cough
sounds a little nasty.Oh, it ain't nothing.
Just getting over
a little something, that's all.
[chuckles] Ain't nothing
your mama's cooking won't fix.
[chuckles]
All right, then.
Now let me get in here.
Feel better.
[door closes]
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org